Threats to Security and Privacy
    Threat actors
        cybercriminals, 
        hackers, 
        thrill-seekers, 
        insider threat

        profit, 
        ideology, 
        satisfaction, 
        discontent

    Insider Threat
    Social Engineering - trick an individual into revealing information or taking an action that can be used to attack systems or networks
    Social Mining - gather information about the organization that may be used to support future attacks
    
    Social Engineering Attacks
        Phishing
            ~ uses authentic-looking emails
            ~ Spear Phishing - specific user or group of users is targeted
            ~ Quishing - QR code phishing

        Social Media Exploitation  
            ~ attacker uses information found on a user’s social media profiles to create a targeted phishing attack.

        Pretexting and Impersonation 
            ~ attacker creates a fictional backstory that is used to manipulate someone into providing private information or to influence behavior.
            ~ Fake IT Support calls - common form of impersonation

        Baiting 
            ~ use of a false promise to lure the user into a trap
            ~ Scareware - use of false alarms or fictitious threats
            ~ Quid pro quo - exchange of some type of sensitive information in exchange for a service
            
        Tailgating
            ~ also known as “piggybacking”, unauthorized person manipulates their way into a restricted area
            ~ Thread-jacking - attacker replies to an existing email exchange, inserting themselves into a legitimate conversation.

    Shoulder Surfing
        ~ an unauthorized person stands near a user to get the user’s password or other data from the user's computer monitor.


Security and Privacy Vulnerabilities
    Physical - The placement of a computer in a non-secure location
    Natural - A server connected to a power source without a surge protector or backup power supply
    Hardware - A connection to the internet without a firewall
    Software - Not updating the computer's operating system when updates are issued

CJIS Systems Agency (CSA)
    responsible for establishing and administering an information technology security program throughout their user community, including local levels

CJIS Systems Officer (CSO)
    individual located within the CSA responsible for the administration of the CJIS network within the organization.

Information Security Officer (ISO)
    security point-of-contact to the FBI CJIS Division.

Criminal Justice Agency (CJA)
    governmental agency that performs the administration of criminal justice pursuant to a statute or executive order

Terminal Agency Coordinator (TAC) 
    point-of-contact at the local agency for matters relating to CJIS information access.

Noncriminal Justice Agency (NCJA)
    government, private, or public agency that provides services primarily for purposes other than the administration of criminal justice.

Organizational Personnel with Information Security Responsibilities
    Local Agency Security Officer (LASO)
        primary Information Security contact between a local law enforcement agency and the CSA

    Authorized Recipient Security Officer (ARSO)
        coordinates and oversees information security by ensuring that the approved fingerprint processing contractor adheres to the CJIS Security Policy

Agency Responsibilities
    Agencies that access CJI are required to adhere to all technical and procedural requirements of the FBI CJIS Security Policy.

Individual User Responsibilities
    Individuals are responsible for maintaining their own conduct, as it pertains to CJI.

Top 5 Daily Security Rules
1. Use a unique user ID and password
2. Be accountable for your actions while accessing and using CJI
3. Do not share or leave passwords in conspicuous locations (keyboard, monitor, mousepad, or desk)
4. Use password protected screensavers and lock computer when stepping away from the desk. Simply turning off the monitor during break does not constitute a sufficient security
5. Logout of the system at the end of your shift or when another operator wants to access the system. 

Contractor/Vendor Responsibilities
    ~ Private contractors who perform criminal justice functions must meet the same training and certification criteria required by governmental agencies performing a similar function.

CJIS Security Addendum
    ~ All private contractors who perform criminal justice functions must sign the CJIS Security Addendum, an addendum to the agreement between a criminal justice agency and a private contractor.

What is CJI?
    ~ In the United States, the individual right to privacy is protected by the US Constitution. The Privacy Act of 1974 further protects personal privacy from misuse by regulating the collection, maintenance, use, and dissemination of information by criminal justice agencies.

Criminal Justice Information (CJI)
    ~ term used to refer to all of the FBI Criminal Justice Information Services (CJIS) Division provided data necessary for law enforcement and civil agencies to perform their work.  
    ~ Biometric
    ~ Identity History
    ~ Biographic
    ~ Property
    ~ Case History

National Crime Information Center (NCIC)
    supervised by the FBI Criminal Justice Information Services (CJIS) Division, however the management of the information processed, stored or transmitted to NCIC is a collaboration between the FBI and federal, state, local, and tribal criminal justice agencies.

Nlets
    a computer-based message switching system that connects every state, local, and federal law enforcement.

Criminal History Record Information
    ~ Criminal History Record Information (CHRI)
        arrest-based data collected by both national and state criminal justice agencies. CHRI is sometimes informally referred to as “restricted data”.

        Arrest descriptions and notations
        Other formal criminal charges
        Conviction status
        Sentencing data
        Incarceration or correctional supervision
        Probation and parole information

    ~ Interstate Identification Index (III)
        “pointer” system that ties FBI criminal history files and state-level files maintained by each state into a national system.

    ~ The restricted files, which should be protected as CHRI, are as follows:
        Gang Files
        Threat Screening Center Files
        Supervised Release Files
        National Sex Offender Registry Files
        Historical Protection Order Files
        Identity Theft Files
        Protective Interest Files
        Person With Information (PWI) data in Missing Persons Files
        Violent Person File
        National Instant Criminal Background Check System (NICS) Denied Transaction

Personally Identifiable Information
    information which can be used to distinguish or trace an individual’s identity, either alone or when combined with other personal or identifying information (e.g., date of birth, place of birth, gender, race, etc.). 

    Name
    Social security number
    Biometric records (such as fingerprints, retina scans, facial geometry)
    Driver’s License or Passport number
    Personal address information (including physical or email addresses)

    PII should be extracted from CJI for the purpose of official business only.


Information Handling
    Authorized Purposes
        Criminal justice purposes
            Detection                                        
            Apprehension
            Pre-trial release
            Post-trial release
            Prosecution
            Adjudication
            Detention
            Correctional supervision
            Rehabilitation of accused persons or criminal offenders

        Noncriminal justice purposes
            Employment suitability
            Licensing determinations
            Immigration and naturalization matters
            National security clearances

Authorized Usage

CJI Dissemination
    CJI should be disclosed only on a need-to-know, right-to-know basis. This means that CJI should never be shared with anyone who does not require the information for their official duties.

    ~ Phone/Radio
    ~ Email 
    ~ Faxing
    ~ Text/Chat

Media Protection
    Access to all digital and non-digital media should be restricted to authorized individuals.

    Diskettes
    Magnetic Tapes
    CDs or DVDs
    External or Removable hard drives
    USB Flash Drives

    Non-digital Media
    Paper
    Microfilm
    Fax Ribbon

    Media Storage
        Digital and non-digital media should be securely stored and physically controlled within a physically secure location or controlled area.

    Secure storage of media includes:
        Locked drawer, desk, or cabinet
        Controlled media library
    
    Physically controlling stored media includes:
        Conducting inventories
        Ensuring procedures are in place to allow users to check out and return media
        Maintaining accountability for stored media

    Physical Media Disposal
        If hard copies no longer need to be retained, shredding and incineration are the two most popular methods for destruction.

    Access, Use, & Dissemination Penalties
        nauthorized requests, receipt, release, interception, dissemination, or discussion of CJI is a serious violation and may result in the following:
        ~ Criminal prosecution
        ~ Termination of employment

    Personnel Sanctions
        The agency will perform a formal disciplinary process for any personnel who fail to comply with the security policies and procedures.


Access Control
    regulation of access between active entities (i.e., users or processes acting on behalf of users) and passive entities (i.e., devices, files, records, domains) in organizational systems. 

    Access Control Criteria
        Authorized access to the system should be based on:
            ~ Valid access authorizations (i.e., privileges)
            ~ Intended system usage
            ~ Attributes associated with the user's account (see AC-2(d)(3) in the Security Policy for a list of possible attributes)

    Individual Access
        Individuals should have access to elements of their personally identifiable information (PII) through either an automated (e.g., application interface) or manual process (e.g., request forms).

    Publicly Accessible Content
        Publicly Accessible Content

    Access Enforcement
        least privilege - granted only the most restrictive set of access privileges required
        separation of duties - division of roles and responsibilities

Physical Security
    Physical Access Authorizations
        ~ Develop and maintain a list of individuals with authorized access to any physically secure location
        ~ Issue authorization credentials (e.g., ID badges, identification cards, etc.) for access to the physically secure location

    Physical Access Control
        ~ individual access authorizations should be verified before granting access.

    Physical Controls
        Physical Access Devices
        Monitoring Physical Access
        Access Control for Transmission Medium
        Access Control for Display Medium
        Delivery and Removal
        Visitor Control

    Controlled Areas
        If an agency cannot meet all of the controls required for establishing a physically secure location but has an operational need to access or store CJI, the agency shall designate an area, room, or storage container as a controlled area for the purpose of day-to-day CJI access or storage.


System Security
    System Access Control
        ~ System Use Notification
        ~ Session Lock 
        ~ Session Termination

    Identification and Authentication
        Identification
            unique representation of an  individual user, machine, or other entity
        
        Authentication
            mechanisms or processes to verify the identity of a user, process, or device, as a prerequisite to allowing access to a system’s resources.

        Encryption
            process of converting information or data into a code to prevent unauthorized access.
        
        Decryption 
            process of converting the information back from its encrypted state into a readable format.

        System and Information Integrity
            helps ensure that the information being accessed has not been tampered with or damaged by an error in the information system.

        Malicious Code Protection
            Employ virus protection
            malicious code protection should include automatic updates
            implement local procedures to ensure malicious code protection is kept current

        Spam and Spyware Protection
            Spam protection at critical information system entry points (e.g., firewalls, electronic mail servers, remote-access servers)
            Spyware protection at workstations, servers, and mobile computing devices on the network
            Spam and spyware protection designed to detect and take appropriate action on unsolicited messages and spyware/adware
        
        Wireless Access
            Wireless access to the system should be protected using appropriate encryption and authentication.
            Wireless Device Malicious Code Protection
                Agencies that allow wireless devices, such as smartphones and tablets, to access CJI should have an approval process for all software used on those devices.
            Devices that have had any unauthorized changes made to them, such as being rooted or jailbroken, should not be used to process, store, or transmit CJI data at any time.

            Remote Access
                All remote accesses must be monitored and controlled by the agency through managed access control points

            Use of External Systems
                agencies may opt to prohibit the use of any external systems

            Personally Owned Information Systems
                Personally owned information systems should not be used to access, process, store, or transmit CJI

            Publicly Accessible Computers
                Publicly accessible computers should not be used to access, process, store or transmit CJI.

Incident Response
    Security Incidents
        New user accounts are mysteriously created which bypass standard procedures
        Sudden high activity on an account that has had little or no activity for months
        Data modification or deletion
        Changes in file lengths or modification dates
        New files with novel or strange names appear
        Attempts to write to system files
        Unexplained poor system performance
        The system unexpectedly crashes without clear reasons
        Denial of service
        Suspicious probes
        Suspicious browsing

    Security Incident Policy
        Agencies must develop and document an incident response policy which must be reviewed and updated annually and following any security incidents involving unauthorized access to CJI or systems used to process, store, or transmit CJI.
    
    Incident Response Training
        Normal User
            Needs to know who to call or how to recognize an incident

        System Administrator
            Needs additional training on how to handle incidents

        Incident Responder
            May need more specific training on forensics, data collection techniques, reporting, system recovery, and system restoration

        Incident Handling
            Preparation
            Detection & Analysis
            Containment, Eradication, & Recovery
            Post-Incident Activity

    Reporting Security Events
        Report any incidents or unusual activity to your agency contact, Local Agency Security Officer (LASO), or Information Security Officer (ISO) immediately.


